I think the lemmas piece of work that I need to do here is on the eyes.
I think I talked about earlier that the U-V islands for the AIS may be a little bit small for what we're
doing here.
I think I may go back to the base color here.
Yeah I think this is them over here.
And I think that's a little small.
I think if we tried to put a texture on that that just be it would be too pixilated and too small.
So what I'd like to do is go ahead and split these out into their own objects and create U-V maps for
them or just one for the eyes and then will bring an eye texture in and lay it down on top of that U-V
map.
So let's try that.
So I'm going to go back to object mode here and I'm going to zoom in and I'm a select one of these eyes
so tab and edit mode and all hover over this and press the L key and then press the P key and I'll choose
to separate this out by selection.
So choose that.
And now here it is right here.
Here it is.
So I'll change the name here too.
Let's call this I underscore well for the left eye.
Now let's come over here to the editing lay out and I'll just move this over for now.
So what let's do is let's take a look at that I selected over here and I'll zoom in with the period
key on the numpad And let's just try and U-V map this maybe even I will isolate it.
I'm going to press shift h to isolate it from the other parts of the character and Alt-Tab into edit
mode.
Looks like I've still got the seams here.
I'll hit the A key to select everything and then I'll press you and unwrap and there we go.
So here is our U-V map.
Now we're going to need to give this material so I'll come over here to the materials panel and we just
need to remove this one and I'll switch back to object mode and hit the minus button to remove that.
Now before I create a new material I'm going to go ahead and switch this renderer up here from Blendr
to the cycle's render engine.
And that's just so that I have the newer nodes here up in the node Ed..
I just prefer the cycle nodes over the blender it's just completely personal preference.
So now that I've got this cycle's renderer selected I'm just going to press new and let's call this
material Let's call this eyes.
So now we have our eyes material over here and what we can do now is bring in an image to lay over our
U.V. map.
I'm going to click add and I'm going to add a new image texture and I've got an image texture on my
drive here that I found.
I've got it here this green eye texture.
I can bring that in and I'll hook it up to the diffuse node and you can see it here in the 3-D view.
And I'll also open it up over here in the U-V editor so you can see now that the guy is just too big
the texture is just too big.
And what I can do here I'm going to move this over and make sure I select this vertex editor and or
selection.
And I'm like this middle Virtex and I can press control.
And the plus button on the number pad and expanded that selections.
And it looks like I've got a couple of extras out here.
Let me de-select these.
So now I can take these and begin to scale them out and I'll also use this proportional editing tool
as well.
If I hit the ESC key you can see the size of the influence here as I scroll it in and out.
So I could maybe begin expanding these out a bit.
I mean decrease the selection to here and try this.
Something like that.
Now we're getting it.
And you can kind of see it in the 3-D view here.
Let's go with that for now.
I'm going to turn the proportional editing tool off and select all of this and maybe scale this down
a bit.
So it's not quite so big.
And then I may actually try this again.
Let's try that.
All right let's try this one a tad back into object mode and gentlemen press auld h to bring everything
back.
So now I just need to duplicate this I over to the other side and mirror it over so that the U.V. map
of this eye is the same as that I saw tab and edit mode for the character here and press the L key and
I'll delete all of these faces.
Now I can go back over to the left eye and I need to make sure that this cursor is in the center of
the grid so I'll press shift s and cursor to center.
And now I'll take this out and make sure.
Oh it looks like the origin is already there.
Fantastic so I don't need to move it to the 3D cursor it's already there.
I'm going to press the end key and make sure that the rotation and scale are all all applied I've got
zeros and ones here in the scale and rotation.
Now I'll just go to the modifiers panel add a modifier and mirror and there we go.
So now we've got the two eyes I believe I can go ahead and apply this like so and now to split them
out.
I'll tab into edit mode and hover over this one press the L key and I'll press P and separate by selection.
And we go.
So now this one is the underscore are.
So that's the right guy.
OK.
So now we've got eyes.
Well now let's go ahead and maybe try and break out our color map.
I'm going to switch back to the blender internal render engine and those are going to be black.
For now since those are cycle's materials but that's fine.
I want to take a look at those texture slots again so let me just go back to texture paint mode and
if we go to our slots we see that we're still on that cycle's material.
I'm just going to switch over to the low poly character here and then back over to texture paint.
Now we can see our slots here.
So we've got the base color we've got a normal map we've got our detail's map or straps for the gloves
and the boots here and our skin texture slot as well.
So we don't really need the normal map anymore more we don't want that to be a part of our color maps
so I can actually take this texture slot and get rid of it.
So now we have only the texture slots we want to combine to create our one color map.
I'm going to go ahead and get rid of this window here I don't think I need this right now.
Now I'm going I'd like to do is create a new image that the textures lots are going to be baked down
onto.
So I want to create the actual image that will be the color map.
So I'm gonna come over here and click the plus button to create a new image and I'll call this call
this character underscore c o l for a color map.
I'm going to make it 2048 again.
And let's just click OK.
So there we have the canvas that all of these texture layers are going to be baked onto.
Now of course we've got the Asterix here at the image menu.
I want to click that save as image and I'm going to go ahead and save this in my texture painting folder
save image.
So now that's been saved over in the Properties window over here.
And click the render button and scroll all the way down to the bake section.
And here we go.
So for this the kind of texture we want for our Bake is not a full render or normal's or ambient occlusion
we've already done those too.
But I'm just going to use textures that's all we want.
I'm going to go ahead and go back to object mode and I'm going to tab into edit mode so we can see all
of the U-V islands and I'm going to switch back over to my character color texture there and we go and
let's give this a try.
I will click back and we've got the big progress bar appear
and then we go.
I'm going to hit the A key to de-select everything here and now if I tab back into object mode you can
see that there is our single baked texture.
Now this color map can be used to take into unity along with the normal map adding ambient occlusion.
So in the next video will open up unity and do that.